He was at ease with sophisticated intellectuals and with humble tent makers.
He was persuasive to Roman dignitaries and to frigid peasants.
His writings were motivating to liberal Greeks and to conservative Jews.
That's how the December 1, 2005 issue of the Watchtower described the inspired writer
of today's text.
Certainly, the Apostle Paul was a master of becoming all things to people of all sorts.
Please open your Bibles to Acts chapter 20.
We're going to read verse 21.
With these words, Paul describes his commission as an apostle.
As we read Acts 20 verse 21,
notice the broad scope of his territory and also the purpose of his ministry.
He said, but I thoroughly bore witness both to Jews and to Greeks
about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus.
Like the Apostle Paul, we too have a commission to preach to people of all sorts.
But is it too much to ask us to imitate Paul's example?
Think about it.
Paul had the advantage of being well-educated.
He was part of the privileged class of Roman citizens.
He held a powerful position as a Pharisee.
None of us has those qualifications.
But are these the things that qualified Paul as a minister of the good news?
It's true, has been a distinguished lawyer.
No doubt helped him to defend and legally establish the good news.
But on the other hand,
Paul's background created obstacles that he had to overcome.
Only then could he preach to people of all sorts.
Paul was a Jewish Pharisee, and that name Pharisee means separated one.
This may refer to the fact that the Pharisees maintained a very strict separation from Gentiles.
Then Jehovah picked Paul to be an apostle,
and to whom to the Gentiles.
No doubt Paul had to do a lot of soul-searching to overcome his former prejudices
in order to carry out his commission to preach.
Paul's need to make major changes.
Reminds me of a man in North Carolina some years ago.
He served as the minister of a large methodist church for over 25 years.
Then he came into the truth.
This man had preached hundreds, if not thousands, of sermons.
With such a background, you would think that public speaking would be easy for him.
And yet he said one of the hardest things he ever had to do
was to stand up in front of the congregation in the Kingdom Hall
and deliver a five-minute Bible reading.
No doubt the Apostle Paul's example was a source of encouragement to this humble brother.
Truly, the Kingdom Good News is a message for all peoples.
But when it comes to preaching the Good News,
unlike many baseball caps, one size does not fit all.
Like Paul to be effective, we have to be adaptable
in the way that we present the Good News.
So let's consider three key qualities that helped to make Paul an effective minister.
Paul was attentive, he was flexible, and he was resourceful.
Consider how he was attentive.
Paul understood the background and the beliefs of his audience.
Consider what happened when he was asked to appear before King Agrippa the second.
Please open your Bibles to Acts chapter 26.
We're going to read verses two and three,
and we notice from these verses that Paul first commended Agrippa on his being well-versed
in the background of the people he was ruling.
Acts 26 verses two and three.
It says concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews King Agrippa,
I consider myself happy that it is before you I am to make my defense this day,
especially because you are an expert on all the customs as well as the controversies among the Jews.
Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently.
Paul was not trying to flatter the King.
He was simply using his knowledge of his audience to establish a common ground
on which he could begin to preach.
Paul was flexible.
Consider what happened when he and Barnabas entered the city of Listera to preach.
The account is recorded in Acts chapter 14.
The audience that they met there in Listera was totally different from that of King Agrippa
and the 100 dignitaries who may have been in the group with him.
This crowd in Listera was made up of a less educated and more superstitious part of the population.
When they healed a man who had been lame from birth, the crowd cried out,
the gods had become like humans and have come down to us.
They even wanted to offer up sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas.
Obviously, Paul could not reason with those people on the basis of their superstitions,
rather, he told the crowd that he and Barnabas were imperfect humans just like them.
And then he turned their attention away from puny humans
and directed it to the grand creation and our living God,
the one who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all the things in them.
And that was enough to restrain the crowd from offering those sacrifices.
A third quality of Paul was, he was resourceful.
If Paul had had the ministry schoolbook back there in the first century,
we would probably say that he did well on point number 46,
illustrations from familiar situations.
Paul used common, easily understood illustrations
to clarify complex spiritual matters.
For example, the Romans were familiar with slavery.
In fact, many recipients of his letter to the Romans may have themselves been slaves.
So Paul used slavery to illustrate the great change in ownership
that had taken place when these individuals became Christians.
Roman 618 says, yes, since you were set free from sin,
you became slaves to righteousness.
Our brothers around the world are showing themselves to be attentive, flexible,
and resourceful as they preach to people of every background imaginable.
For example, many people in the Far East are concerned about things that affect them personally,
such as health, child training, and education.
So our brothers there effectively use those subjects to begin conversations.
However, that may not work as well in certain cities in the United States,
where people may be more concerned with corruption, traffic congestion, and crime.
But no matter what topic we use to introduce the truth,
to be effective Bible teachers, it is important for us to remain positive and encouraging,
and to stress the practical value of applying Bible principles.
With the help of God's Holy Spirit, the Apostle Paul was able to overcome personal obstacles
and prejudices to become an outstanding minister of the good news.
It's true we may not meet a Roman dignitary or a frigid peasant as we go about our territory,
but with Jehovah's help, we can imitate Paul's example of an effective minister
by being attentive, flexible, and resourceful.
Why do we make this effort?
We do it because we want to become all things to people of all sorts
that we might by all possible means save some.